# Data Integration

Data integration is one of the major tasks of data pre-processing. Integration of multiple databases or data files into a single store of identical data is known as data integration. It is usually performed to create machine learning datasets and predict the statistical information from the data during the data mining process. There are a number of issues to consider during data integration like **schema integration** and **object matching**. Schema integration arrives at a common schema representing the elements of the source schemas. This can help improve the accuracy and speed of the subsequent data mining process. The semantic heterogeneity and structure of data pose great challenges in data integration. How can we match schema and objects from different sources? This is the essence of the entity identification problem.

## Issues in Data Integraion

1. **Entity Identification Problem**. It is likely that your data analysis task will involve data integration, which combines data from multiple sources into a coherent data store, as in data warehousing. These sources include multiple databases, data cubes, or flat files. Identificatoin and merging of instances is called entity identification. Entity identification is difficult when there is not common identification means such as primary keys to identify whether two instances represent the same real-world entity. Entity identification is usually solved manually, however, with immense data volumes, this manual process is not feasible. When matching attributes from one database to another during integration, special attention must be paid to the structure of the data. This is to ensure that any attribute functional dependencies and referential constraints in the source system match those in the target system. For example, in one system, a discount may be applied to the order, whereas in another system it is applied to each individual line item within the order. If this is not caught before integration, items in the target system may be improperly discounted.

2. **Data Redundancy**. Redundant data occurs while we merge data from multiple databases. If the redundant data is not removed incorrect results will be obtained during data analysis. Redundant data occurs due to the following reasons.
   - _Object Identification_: The same attribute or object may have different names in different databases.
   - _Derivable data_: One attribute may be a derived attribute in another table, e.g., annual revenue.

3. Duplicate Data Attributes or Tuple Duplication. Duplicates are usually present in the information contained in one or more other attributes. Apart from detecting redundancies between attributes, duplication should also be detected at the tuple level (i.e., where there are two or more identical tuples for a given unique data entry case). The use of denormalizes table (often done to improved performance by avoiding joins) is another source of data reduncancy. Inconsistencies often arise between various duplications, due to inaccurate data entry or updating some but not all data occurrences. For example, if a purchase order database contains attributes for the purchaser's name and address instead of a key to this information in a purchaser database, discrepancies can occur, such as the same purchaser's name appearing with differnt addresses withing the purchase order database.

4. Irrelevant Attributes. Some attributes in the data are not important and they are not considered while performing the data mining tasks. There is no use in having such irrelevant attributes in the data. For example, students' ID is often irrelevant to the task of predicting GPA.

5. Data Value Conflict Detection and Resolution. Data integration also involves the detection and resolution of data value conflicts. For example, for the real-world entity, attribute values from different sources may differ. This may be due to differences in representation, scaling, or encoding. For instance, for a hotel chain, the price or rooms in different cites may invole not only different currencies but also different services and taxes. Also, when exchanging information between two schools, for example, each school may have its own curriculum and grading scheme. One school may adopt a quarter system, offer three courses on database systems, and assign grades from A+ to F, whereas the other may adopt a semester system, offer two courses on databases, and assign grades form 1 to 10. It is difficult to work out precise course-grade transformation rules between the two schools, making information exchange difficult.
